
Compare Cards home link – Credit Cards & Credit Card Offers

    Card Category
    Card Type
    Credit Quality

    Find a Credit Card Guides & Tools Credit Reports & Scores Blog 

More From CompareCards

    About Us Our Team Sitemap Privacy & Settings 

Top 8 Credit Cards For Excellent Credit

Thomas Donaldson, Updated on Oct 05, 2016
Advertiser Disclosure

    Facebook
    Twitter
    Google Plus
    Pinterest
    Email us

*Editorial Note: This content is not provided or commissioned by the credit card issuer. Any opinions, analyses, reviews or recommendations expressed in this article are those of the author’s alone, and have not been reviewed, approved or otherwise endorsed by the credit card issuer. This site may be compensated through the credit card issuer Affiliate Program.

Do you have excellent credit? If so, it’s time to upgrade to a better rewards credit card.

The banks are fighting harder than ever to win customers with excellent credit. Take advantage of your excellent credit today by getting a card that earns you more rewards. Our credit card experts have selected the top 8 credit card deals you can take advantage of right now:

BankAmericard Travel Rewards® Credit Card

With the BankAmericard Travel Rewards® credit card, you'll earn 1.5 points for every dollar you spend, and points can be redeemed for nearly any travel purchase in the form of a statement credit. This card comes with a 20,000-point sign up bonus when you spend $1,000 in the first 90 days. That can be a $200 statement credit towards travel purchases, and it’s one of the few travel rewards cards with no annual fee. This card also offers no foreign transaction fees, making it perfect for traveling abroad. If you’re a traveler looking for a simple no annual fee card that won’t restrict your travel to certain airlines, giving you the flexibility to travel on any airline, at any time, with no blackout dates, then this card is for you. See more details
Citi® Double Cash Card – 18 month BT offer

This is one of the best cash rewards card out there because it gives you cash back twice. You’ll earn 1% back when you make a purchase, and another 1% back when you make a payment. You’ll also receive a 0% intro APR on balance transfers for 18 months. This is very helpful in paying off a balance when you transfer it to this card from another credit card. The best part about this card’s cash back? There’s no limit to the amount of cash back you can earn! This card is perfect for people who don’t want to keep up with rotating categories each quarter. When used responsibly, this card is a cash back machine. With a great rewards rate, 18 months of 0% intro APR on balance transfers, and no annual fee, the Citi Double Cash is a smart choice for just about everyone! See more details
Capital One® Venture® Rewards Credit Card

Another top travel card. This card earns you 2 miles for every $1 spent and comes with a 40,000 mile sign up bonus after you spend $3,000 on purchases within the first 3 months – equivalent to $400 in travel. It does have an annual fee of $59, but it’s waived the first year. The card allows you to fly any airline, stay at any hotel, anytime with no blackout dates a real plus for last minute travel plans. It also has zero foreign transaction fees and your miles don’t expire. All of these benefits make the Capital One Venture Card a great fit for all travelers and even once-a-year vacations! See more details
Chase Slate®

This is one of the most popular cards for balance transfers. The Chase Slate® is the only card that has the unique combination of a long 0% intro APR, $0 annual fee, and $0 intro fee on transfers made within 60 days of account opening. If you are paying interest on any balance, you can transfer it completely for free within the first 60 days you have this card. It’s available to those with good credit, so it’s okay if your credit score isn’t quite perfect. If you’re ready to put your credit card debt behind you, the Chase Slate® has all the tools and perks you need to make it happen. See more details
Discover it® Cashback Match™

This cash rewards card comes with a unique sign up bonus unlike anything you’ve seen; At the end of your first year, Discover will match the cash back you’ve earned. This is the only credit card that will match your cash back at the end of the first year. So if you earned $200 in cash back from purchases in your first year, Discover will match it, making your total cash back for the year $400! The Discover it card earns 5% cash back in popular spending categories that change each quarter and 1% on all other purchases. The 5% cash back categories include things like gas, groceries, dining, and more. On top of the incredible rewards program, this card comes with 0% intro APR on purchases and balance transfers for 12 months. There is even no annual fee, no foreign transaction fees, and no late fee for your first late payment. This card is perfect for cash rewards, financing a big purchase, transferring your high interest debt, and avoiding bank fees to help you save money. See more details
BankAmericard Cash Rewards™ Credit Card

0% APR for 12 billing cycles, combined with 3% cash back on gas, 2% cash back on grocery stores/wholesale clubs, and 1% cash back on everything else makes this card a top pick. Did we mention this card comes with no annual fee? In case that wasn’t enough, you’ll also gain access to Bank of America’s award winning online & mobile banking. The reward rates get even better if you have a Bank of America checking or savings account and redeem your cash rewards into your checking or savings account. Finally, when you spend just $500 in the first 90 days, about $6 a day, you’ll receive a $100 bonus. With cash back, no annual fee, a long 0% intro APR, and a $100 sign up bonus, and you can see why this card is a top pick of ours! See more details
Citi® Diamond Preferred® Card

This card perfect for people looking to avoid paying interest or who want to finance a large purchase. The Citi Diamond Preferred offers a 21-month 0% introductory APR for purchases and balance transfers – with no annual fee! That means you won’t have to pay any interest all the way into 2018. By transferring your other high interest credit card balances to this card, you’ll have almost two years to pay off your balances. You’ll also gain access to Citi Private Pass for exclusive presale tickets and a Personal Concierge Service available to assist you 24/7. With each purchase, you’ll earn City Easy Deal points with each card purchase redeemable for discounts on online merchandise, travel tickets, gift cards, and more. See more details
Chase Freedom Unlimited℠

With this card, there’s no annual fee, and you’ll get $150 bonus cash after spending $500 in the first three months. There’s nothing better than free bonus cash, and on top of that, this card has 0% intro APR on purchases and balance transfers for 15 months. The ongoing APR is 14.24%-23.24% Variable. For ongoing rewards, the Chase Freedom Unlimited card earns 1.5% cash back, and as the name implies, there’s no limit to how much you can earn. This card allows you to shop and travel with confidence because it comes with zero liability protection, chip-enabled security, purchase protection, price protection, and auto rental collision damage waiver. See terms and more details on the application page. See more details
Best Low Interest Credit Cards
Card Name 	Best For 	
BankAmericard Travel Rewards® Credit Card

              

About our ratings
	Foreign country travelers that want to earn rewards. 	Get More Details
Citi® Double Cash Card – 18 month BT offer

              

About our ratings
	Earning cash back twice on every purchase. 	Get More Details
Capital One® Venture® Rewards Credit Card

              

About our ratings
	Earning miles for travel that can be redeemed any time on any airline. 	Get More Details
Chase Slate®

              

About our ratings
	Transferring a credit card balance completely fee-free. 	Get More Details
Discover it® Cashback Match™

              

About our ratings
	Earning 5% cash back on purchases in popular rotating categories. 	Get More Details
BankAmericard Cash Rewards™ Credit Card

              

About our ratings
	Earning bonus cash back on gas and grocery purchases. 	Get More Details
Citi® Diamond Preferred® Card

              

About our ratings
	Balance transfers and shopping online. 	Get More Details
Chase Freedom Unlimited℠

              

About our ratings
	Getting 1.5% cash back on all purchases made with this card 	Get More Details

Share your experiences, tips and tricks with us!

Let others learn from your experience. Ask questions. Share your thoughts and opinions about credit cards.

There is nothing we value more than the opinions of our customers. We encourage open discussions among all users and hope we can all share advice. Please keep our site clean and safe by following our posting guidelines and please, don’t disclose personal information like your credit card numbers or account information.
Community Conversation

Sort by:
Picture of Bert Tomon

By: Bert Tomon | Oct 11, 2016

Love my CITI Bank Cash Back card; it is like a discount on everything I purchase; Thanks CITI
Reply
Picture of Jorge L González-Becerra

By: Jorge L González-Becerra | Oct 9, 2016

Citi Simplicity the best by far
Reply
Picture of Bruce Berggren

By: Bruce Berggren | Oct 5, 2016

Seems like all my CHASE Credit Cards Rock, Pretty Sure I have them all.
Reply
Picture of Mary Anne Bobik

By: Mary Anne Bobik | Oct 3, 2016

The card that I have chosen is Discover, no interest for 18 months.
Reply
Picture of Tamara Wilson

By: Tamara Wilson | Sep 29, 2016

Capitol one has always been my go to card
Reply
Picture of Bev Clark Uhlman

By: Bev Clark Uhlman | Sep 17, 2016

I have 3 or 4 of the cards listed above, i always take adv of the quarterly rewards for 5% cash back, it really adds up
Reply
Picture of Stacey Dyer

By: Stacey Dyer | Sep 14, 2016

I have a Chase Freedom Card and I'd like it very much no problems with it
Reply
Picture of Elaine Kates

By: Elaine Kates | Sep 2, 2016

Do any of these cards have 0% with a 0% transfer fee?
Reply

1 Reply

By: CompareCards | Sep 6, 2016

The Chase Slate card is an excellent credit card for balance transfers as it offers 0% intro APR for 15 months on purchases and balance transfers and there is no fee for balance transfers made within the first 60 days of account opening.
Picture of Tom Jensen

By: Tom Jensen | Aug 25, 2016

I believe the best card whichI have is the CITI Double cash if you pay off you bill each month 2%. If you don't you only get 1% on your purchases.
Reply
Picture of Kamal Khandelwal

By: Kamal Khandelwal | Aug 23, 2016

Think CITI is the best one
Reply

Page:

    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    9
    10
    11
    12
    13
    14
    15
    16
    17
    18
    19
    20
    21
    22
    23
    24
    25
    26
    27
    28
    29
    30
    31
    32
    33

These responses are not provided or commissioned by the bank advertiser. Responses have not been reviewed, approved or otherwise endorsed by the bank advertiser. It is not the bank advertiser's responsibility to ensure all posts and/or questions are answered.
Additional Resources

    Pay 0% interest until 2018
    7 Amazing Cash Back Credit Cards

You May Also Like

    Best Credit Cards Of 2016
    10 Best Business Credit Cards of 2016

Best Low Interest Cards

    BankAmericard Travel Rewards® Credit Card

Citi® Double Cash Card – 18 month BT offer

Capital One® Venture® Rewards Credit Card

Chase Slate®

Discover it® Cashback Match™

BankAmericard Cash Rewards™ Credit Card

Citi® Diamond Preferred® Card

Chase Freedom Unlimited℠

Compare

    Top Credit Cards of 2016
    Rewards Cards
    Low Interest Cards
    Balance Transfer Cards
    No Annual Fee Cards

Partners

    JumpStart
    National Educators Council
    Junior Achievement
    The Huffington Post
    BBB

Community

    Compare Wallet Blog
    Ask Our Experts
    Education
    Credit Concierge
    Scholarship Award

Company

    About Us
    Compare Side by Side
    Leadership
    Site Map

    Facebook Twitter Google+ 

Terms of Use | Privacy Policy

*General Disclaimer: See the online credit card application for details about terms and conditions. We make every effort to maintain accurate information. However, all credit card information is presented without warranty. To confirm terms and conditions, click the "Apply Now" button and review info on the secure credit card terms page. Advertiser Disclosure

CompareCards. © 2016 All Rights Reserved.
